# Setup

You can use the following commands to make a fresh clone of your repository:

```
git clone -b e4 git@gitlab.epfl.ch:lamp/students-repositories-fall-2020/cs210-GASPAR.git cs210-e4
cd cs210-e4
```
# Be functional!

This course is about **functional** programming, therefore you're not allowed to use the following
constructs in this assignment:
- `var`
- `while`
- `return`
- Any class in the `scala.collection.mutable` package

# Exercise 4: Pattern matching and recursion

In this exercise you will be working with perfectly balanced trees, defined as follows:

```scala
trait Perfect[A]
case class Empty[A]() extends Perfect[A]
case class Layer[A](elem: A, next: Perfect[(A, A)]) extends Perfect[A]
```

Perfect trees are always perfectly balanced by construction. Unlike the traditional tree data-structure, which consists of nodes and leaves, perfect trees are made of several layers of increasing size and a single empty treeat the bottom. For instance, the perfect tree containing the numbers 1 to 7 is defined as follows:
```scala
  val exampleTree: Perfect[Int] =
    Layer(1,                       // 1st layer, with 1 element
      Layer((2, 3),                // 2nd layer, with 2 elements
        Layer(((4, 5), (6, 7)),    // 3rd layer, with 4 elements
          Empty()                  // empty tree at the bottom
        )
      )
    )
```

Note that each layer holds twice as many elements as its parent layer, and that elements are packed into nested pairs. This structure emerges from the fact that the next layer of `Perfect[A]` is defined to be a `Perfect[(A, A)]`, that is, a tree with pairs of `A`-s as its elements. We call this data-structure a perfectly balanced tree because it always contains exactly $2^n−1$ elements, where n is the number of layers.

Implement the `toList` method that transforms a perfectly balanced tree into a list. Your implementation must be written directly in the body of trait `Perfect`, as opposed to being in the body of the case classes `Empty` and `Layer`. The order of the elements in the returned list should correspond to a layer by layer traversal of the tree. In other words, calling `.toList` on the example tree defined in the introduction should return `List(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7)`.

**Hint 1**: When creating or concatenating lists, make sure that all elements are of the same type.
**Hint 2**: Don’t worry about performance, aim for the simplest solution possible. A correct but slow solution will be given a full score, no extra point will be awarded for tail-recursive solutions.



