# Setup

You can use the following commands to make a fresh clone of your repository:

```
git clone -b e6 git@gitlab.epfl.ch:lamp/students-repositories-fall-2020/cs210-GASPAR.git cs210-e6
cd cs210-e6
```

# Be functional!

This course is about **functional** programming, therefore you're not allowed to use the following
constructs in this assignment:
- `var`
- `while`
- `return`
- Any class in the `scala.collection.mutable` package

# Exercise 6: Streams

We all know the common use case of replacing all occurrences of a substring `pattern` within a string `text` by another substring `replacement`.
If we represent strings as `List[Char]`, we can write the signature of such a method as

```scala
def replaceAll(text: List[Char], pattern: List[Char],
    replacement: List[Char]): List[Char] = /* omitted */
```

Even though this method seems very well defined on its own, there are several interpretations that we can give to partially overlapping patterns and replacements.
For example, what should

```scala
replaceAll(List('a', 'a', 'a'), List('a', 'a'), List('b'))
```

return?
It could return either `List('b', 'a')` or `List('a', 'b')`.

In this exercise, we use the interpretation were patterns are tested *left-to-right*, so that the left-most match wins.
Under that interpretation, `List('b', 'a')` must be returned.

Moreover, we choose a slightly unusual interpretation that, after replacing a substring, we consider the replacement itself, together with the rest of the input string, as candidate for further replacement.
This means that

```scala
replaceAll(List('a', 'a', 'b', 'a', 'b', 'a'), List('a', 'b', 'a'), List('b', 'a'))
```

results in `List('a', 'b', 'b', 'a')`.

Indeed, we first find the substring `aba` at index 1.
We immediately send the left part of the input (until index 1, i.e., `a`) to the output, so it will not be reconsidered for replacement.
We then replace `aba` by `ba`, resulting in a new remaining input `baba`.
In that substring, we identify a new occurrence of `aba` (after the first `b`, which is emitted to the output) which must be replaced.
Note that this subsequence was not part of the original input.
This results in the new remaining input `ba`.
At this point, no new replacement is possible.
The final result is therefore `a` followed by `b` followed by `ba`, i.e., `abba`.


In this exercise, the `replacement` is always guaranteed to be strictly shorter than the `pattern` (i.e., `replacement.size < pattern.size`).

We can generalize this problem to lazy lists, by admitting `input: LazyList[Char]` and returning an output `LazyList[Char]`:

```scala
def replaceAll(input: LazyList[Char], pattern: List[Char],
    replacement: List[Char]): LazyList[Char] = ???
```

Note that the `pattern` and `replacement` remain `List`s.
The resulting stream will be infinite if and only if `input` is infinite.

## Helper function

Implement the helper function

```
def testStartsWith(input: LazyList[Char], pattern: List[Char]): Option[LazyList[Char]]
```

which tests whether `input` starts with `pattern`, and if yes, returns the remaining of the `input`.

Examples:

```
testStartsWith(LazyList('a', 'b', 'c'), List('a', 'b')) == Some(LazyList('c'))
testStartsWith(LazyList('a', 'b', 'c'), List('b', 'c')) == None
testStartsWith('a' #:: 'b' #:: infiniteLazyList, List('a')) == Some('b' #:: infiniteLazyList)
```

When `replacement.size >= pattern.size`, your implementation can behave in an arbitrary way (e.g., it could throw or infinitely loop).
For all other inputs, `testStartsWith` must terminate in finite time, whether `input` is finite or infinite.

## replaceAll

Implement the `replaceAll`  function for streams.

Your implementation must be able to handle both finite and infinite input streams.
This means that `replaceAll(input, pat, repl).take(n).toList` must complete in finite time for all `input`, `pat`, `repl` and `n`, such that `replacement.size < pattern.size`, even if `input` is infinite.
