# Setup

You can use the following commands to make a fresh clone of your repository:

```
git clone -b e7 git@gitlab.epfl.ch:lamp/students-repositories-fall-2020/cs210-GASPAR.git cs210-e7
cd cs210-e7
```

# Be functional!

This course is about **functional** programming, therefore you're not allowed to use the following
constructs in this assignment:
- `var`
- `while`
- `return`
- Any class in the `scala.collection.mutable` package

# Exercise 7: Interpreter

Your task in this exercise is to extend the interpreter presented in the lab to support by-name arguments. We start with an example that shows how by-name arguments work in Scala. Consider the `List.fill` function:

```scala
object List {
  // Produces a collection containing the results of some element computation a number of times.
  def fill[A](n: Int)(elem: => A): List[A] =
    if n != 0 then elem :: fill(n - 1)(elem)
    else Nil
}
```

Notice that `elem` is passed by name. As a result, in `List.fill(n)(expr)`, `expr` is evaluated `n` times. For example, we can construct `List(1, 2, 3 ,4)` with a `var`:

```scala
var count = 0
List.fill(4)({ count += 1; count }) // List(1, 2, 3, 4)
```

In Scala, this is implemented by transforming function with by-name arguments, and calls to these functions. The above definition of `fill` will be transformed as follows:

```scala
def fill[A](n: Int)(elem: () => A): List[A] =
  if n != 0 then elem() :: fill(n - 1)(() => elem())
  else Nil
```

Likewise, usages of `fill` are transformed as follows: `List.fill(4)(()` `=> { count += 1; count })`.

More precisely:

- The type of by-name arguments become nullary-functions (functions with zero arguments); `elem: => A` becomes `elem: () => A`

- In the body of by-name function definitions, references to by-name arguments become nullary-function application; `elem` becomes `elem()`

- At call site, arguments to by-name functions are wrapped into a nullary-function; `List.fill(n)(expr)` becomes `List.fill(n)(() => expr)`

To add by-name to our `Expr` language, we extend the enum for `Expr` with two additional constructs, `FunByName` and `CallByName`:

```scala
enum Expr {
  case Constant(value: Int)
  case Name(name: String)
  case BinOp(op: BinOps, arg1: Expr, arg2: Expr)
  case IfNonzero(cond: Expr, caseTrue: Expr, caseFalse: Expr)
  case Call(function: Expr, arg: Expr)
  case Fun(arg: String, body: Expr)
  // Added for this exercise:
  case FunByName(param: String, body: Expr)
  case CallByName(function: Expr, arg: Expr)
}
```

`FunByName` is a function definition with a single by-name argument. `CallByName` is call to a function taking a by name argument. As an example, assuming we had extended `Expr` to also have `Cons` and `Empty`, `fill` would be encoded as follows:

```scala
// def fill[A](n: Int)(elem: => A): List[A] =
//   if n != 0 then elem :: fill(n - 1)(elem)
//   else Nil
Fun("n", FunByName("elem",
  IfNonzero(
    Name("n"),
    Cons(
      Name("elem"),
      CallByName(
        Call(
          Name("fill"),
          BinOp(BinOps.Minus, Name("n"), Constant(1))
        ),
        Name("elem")
      )
    ),
    Empty
  )
))
```

Your implementation will be done using desugaring. This means that expressions containing `FunByName` and `CallByName` will be replaced by equivalent expressions without those two constructs. Therefore, expressions that come out of desugaring should not contain any `FunByName` or `CallByName`. As a result, the implementation of `eval`, `subst` and `alphaConvert` don't need to be updated!

We provide you with a skeleton implementation of `desugar` that traverses expressions and applies the desugaring at every step. Your task is to complete the implementation of `desugar` to transform `FunByName` and `CallByName` into semantically equivalent expressions using `Call` and `Fun`.

Similarly to by-name arguments in Scala, your desugaring should rewrite by-name arguments according to the following scheme:

- In the body of by-name function definitions, references to by-name arguments become nullary-function applications
- At call site, arguments to by-name functions are wrapped into a nullary-function

Note that since in the `Expr` language all functions have exactly one argument, you need to emulate nullary-functions using dummy parameters. For instance an nullary-function definition can be emulated with `Fun("unused", expr)` where `unused` is unused in `expr`. Nullary-function application can be emulated by passing a dummy parameters, such as `Call(Name("f"), Constant(0))`.
